Claudebot now became Open Claw. Ola
released official documentation on how
you can integrate Open Claw with Olama.
So you don't need to pay for anything.
It's completely free. Run models locally
and let open claw control your computer.
Ola has a model provider. Using that we
can download any of these models and
connect with open claw. So your data
remains 100% private. and I'm going to
take you through step by step as a
beginner's guide on how you can connect
Open Claw with Ola and run the whole
setup for free on your computer. That's
exactly what we're going to see today.
Let's get started.
So, OpenClaw, previously called Clawbot
and then Moltbot, now officially it's
called Open Claw. It can help you clear
your inbox, send emails, manages your
calendar, check flights all from
WhatsApp, Telegram or any chat app. So
in this tutorial, we'll see. I'm going
to send a message from Slack and I'm
going to control my computer. As a first
step, you're going to install Open Claw.
I'll put this documentation in the
description below so you can follow
through. So first step, npm install. So
I'm going to open my terminal from my
computer. in my terminal npm install - g
openclaw at latest and then click enter.
Now it's installing the main package
that is open claw and that is now
installed. Next we need to download oama
from olama.com. So click the download
icon and you should be able to install.
Next we need to choose what model we
want to use. So if you go into your
models tab so there are multiple models
in the list as you can see here but
there are recommended few models. Quen 3
coder GLM 4.7 GPTO OSS 20B and GPT OSS
120B just because I want to run this
locally. I'm going to use GP OSS 20B. So
two ways to download this model. One is
after installing Olama you will have a
chat interface like this. There you got
the list of models there. So you can
click download and download it or just
say hi by choosing the model and it'll
automatically download that for you. So
I'm just saying hi and it'll
automatically download and then respond
to me and here is the response. Hello,
how can I assist you today? So
successfully we have installed Olama and
downloaded the model. Now installation
steps completed. Next configuration. So
we need to configure the context length
and that's supposed to be 64,000 tokens.
So here you can go to Olama and
settings. You can also go here and then
settings and here you got the settings.
So I'm going to choose 64,000 and
automatically it'll get saved. The first
method to download the model is directly
from the app itself that is Ola app or
if you are programming and want to
download from the terminal you can use
Olama pull GPT OSS 20B and then click
enter that will automatically download
the model. So you can choose one of the
option Olama configuration done. So next
we need to launch open claw using Olama.
So you need to type lama launch openclaw
or you can also type lama launch clawbot
that's the previous name which will be
duplicated soon. So ideally using open
claw would be good but in my case I'm
using a little bit outdated Olama. So
I'm going to use cloudbot. So launch
cloudbot and then click enter. So you
can see it's automatically launching GPT
OSS 20B. If you're doing for the first
time it'll automatically ask you what
model you want to choose and you can
choose accordingly. Now you can see
cloudboard has been configured with OAM
gateway is already running that is
running behind the scenes. So this is
open CL web UI. So if you want to start
this in your terminal open claw
configure section web and then click
enter. That'll ask if I want to run it
locally and I'm going to say yes. Do I
need a web search? No. Web fetch yes.
And that web is configured here. So I
can just open this link that is a web UI
and this is that web UI and you can just
type say hi and it'll respond back to
you. This is just for you to test the
purpose. But now we are going to see how
this is going to work from Slack
directly controlling your computer. So I
already explained how to connect Slack
in my previous video which I'll put the
link in the description below. So it's
just few step like creating slack app
oath and permission configure enabling
socket mode subscribe to events and
finally enable messages tab. I've
already covered step-by-step tutorial.
So once after you follow all the step
and my slack bot is called praise AI. So
you can come here and I can just say
list files in my folder that is my
computer. So this is web version of
slack. So from the world you can be
anywhere in the world and then control
my computer like this. So I'm going to
list my files. I can ask it to read my
calendar. I can ask it to read all my
emails and it can do it for you. So when
you are sending a message from a
channel, you need to tag at the bot so
it knows and you can see it's listing
the files in this folder. That is really
nice. Now I can ask it to do any task on
my computer right from my web or from my
mobile app or any messaging apps such as
WhatsApp, Telegram and I can control my
computer also I can give it any tasks to
do. Do try and let me know in the
comments below what you think about this
and currently this is completely running
locally on your computer. All the models
all the data remains private.
Considering you already like open CL, I
also created another video step-by-step
integration of Slack with open claw
which I highly recommend you to watch
and I will see you